Now it's time to talk about something
known as Web Vitals, and in particular,
Core Web Vitals.
So what's the deal with Web Vitals?
It's an effort led by
the Google Chrome team, but
it's open to anyone, to define vitals.
Like, what are the most important
metrics that we wanna focus
on as web developers for web performance.
And they are calculated over the 75th
percentile over mobile and web.
It doesn't matter, but actually,
the idea is to get real user metrics, and
based on real user metrics, Define a set
of rules that might change with time.
In fact, they have been changed a couple
of times for us to create better websites.
So the idea was actually to define a like
common goal for web performance.
Because if not,
it's not clear how fast it's fast.
And today, Core Web Vitals is
actually including three metrics.
One that we have already covered, actually
two, we have already covered two of those.
Largest contentful paint,
that is measuring loading.
First, input delay,
that is measuring interactivity,
how interactive your website feels.
I'm not saying that this is
what will happen in the future.
I will explain that in a second.
And then CLS, cumulative layout shift,
that detects visual stability.
Actually, when you are loading a website
and then the website moves around,
the elements are moving,
because an image appears and then,
you probably have seen this
typically in newspapers.
You are reading the article and
then the article shifts down,
because a large ad appeared at the top.
Well, that's a layout shift and
it's bad for performance.
So, first input delay is the only one
that we're not actually using too much.
And it's probably going to
be replaced by another one.
So after a couple of years of testing it,
we ended up saying,
well, you know what, it doesn't
feel like like the best metric, so
it's probably going to be
replaced by another one.
So, but again,
even if you're setting large content will
paint as something important, again,
the largest contentful pain you
will see in an example in a second.
So let me go directly there.
It checks initial load.
So it's like replacing the idea of
how fast your website is loading,
is at which point the most important part
of the content appears on the screen.
Because it has to do with
the screen it will be
different on different viewpoint sizes.
So if you're using responsive design
based on the width of your screen,
the design of the homepage is different or
the landing page is different.
So it might be different on mobile,
on desktop,
on tablets because the website
is different, okay?
First input delay,
then it checks interactivity.
So at which moment you are releasing
the thread enough to, for
example, interact with the content.
On the visual stability that we don't
want the content to shift around while
the page loads.
So, for example,
we can actually try to see here,
different metrics in which
moments that are happening, okay?
For example, typically when you see
that your content goes to white,
it's time to first bite.
How do you know that?
For example, you're on a website,
google.com, okay?
And then you click, you search for
the best library for web developers and
frontendmasters appears,
and you click on the link.
When you click on the link If it
doesn't go to white immediately,
at least not now, it was in the 90s,
your see at Google, okay.
For a couple of milliseconds or
seconds and after a while, you see white.
When you see white is when
time to first byte has fire.
So is it depends on the browser actually,
but simply fine.
Let's say that that's the moment.
Then you see in this case a background.
That's that great background
that's first paint.
So the browser paint something.
Is it useful?
No, so it's just a gradient, okay?
So it's not useful for our brain,
remember, we're doing this for
the user and our brain says,
yeah, something is there, but
it's like I don't feel
the content is ready.
So I don't feel that
the website was loaded.
Then something appear, okay.
In this case, the search box.
So this is known as content.
Is it the most important content?
Probably not, but
it's still something that my brain parses.
So we are talking about
brain parsing right now.
It's there, but it's not really,
really important.
First, now, if you look at the end here,
at the end,
we see which one can be our
largest contentful pane.
That sometimes we have candidates because
we don't know which one is the largest.
But probably it has to do with
the results that we are looking for.
So that's why we're expecting, okay?
I will show you another
example to see this.
But actually,
the browser will actually do this for us.
It will say, okay,
this is the largest contentful pane.
I will explain how to see
that in action in a second.
But here you have an example of
first contentful paint that we
haven't mentioned a lot because
it's not really so important.
And large has contentful paint
that is the one that is important.
Contentful is actually an element
the box on the page that has content,
it can be text, or it can be an image.
And while the page loads, the browser
calculates different candidates for
largest contentful paint.
For example, for
a while it was this one, that title, but
at the end it was actually the image.
So this is largest contentful paint,
and when that image is render is fire.
Again, what fire means nothing is for
analytics only, but
it fires in our brain, that's the idea.
The idea of largest contentful pain
is firing something in our brain,
user's brain saying, the most important
content is there on the screen.
So I can start reading.
I can start parsing this.
Yes.
>> Is it based on geometry
because the image is
larger-
>> Yeah.
>> Than the-
>> It's geometry, it's larger,
it's about geometry of
the element on the screen.
In the case of, I mean,
it's about rendering, not about CSS.
So I know if you have
an image without padding,
it's not taking the padding
in consideration.
It's about the content itself, right?
Not about the HTML element and
the CSS inside.
It's not the box of HTML.
It's what you see on the screen actually,
okay?
Yeah.
>> If you put like a skeleton
like using suspense or
like a loading sort of thing like that I
would assume that that would like keep
people engaged is there like a percentage
for that that is effective for
keeping those people engaged to
stay on that while it's loading?
>> Well,
let me answer first with something.
Never assume.
Tested.
So again, don't trust anyone.
That's first rule.
Second rule, don't assume.
In fact, it's old at this point.
I can't even Google that special.
If it's still there,
let me see if it's there.
Avoid the spinner,
that's the one I was looking for.
It's from 10 years ago, and
he was saying, avoid the spinner.
That was you were suggesting, okay?
So he was saying, don't do this.
Why?
Because if you do that,
you're creating a big sign in your
website saying that you're as low.
So, yeah, but that's the Gmail case
actually, remember when you saw the Gmail?
What happens when you do that
is the speed index goes wrong.
You get the worst speed index because
you see just the loading spinner for
lot of time, and
then everything is render.
So, sometimes you don't have any other
option, I mean, you're loading an Nestle
movie and the movie is not coming,
well, you have to put loading.
Okay but four standard web apps and
website based or
content based websites,
it's a good idea to avoid the spinner,
and again, for that you need to
just test this with your user.
You can do AB testing.
And in this case, the idea is to start
rendering parts of the content or
placeholders and you can see these a lot
in social networks, TikTok, Facebook,
Instagram.
If he's taking time you actually get
to see this kind of placeholders
that it feels sometimes it's an animation,
it feels like we are typing,
we have some little guys
inside the computer typing.
So it's an effect that it's not
really a loading spinner but
it's kind of giving you the effect,
it's tricking your brain to get you there.
So we need to remember why
are we doing performance?
We are doing performance at the end
because we are losing money, okay?
Why are we losing money?
Because our users are happy
about the performance.
Users are not sometimes
conscious about that, okay.
So it's not like, this website is slow,
let's get out of here.
You click on a link, it doesn't work, you
don't feel it's what you are looking for,
you get out.
So that's the moment that
you are losing the user.
So because we are losing the user, we care
a lot about perception, user's perception.
So we are doing web performance because
of user's perception that that leads
to better conversion, okay.
So, that's why we're doing this.
So that's why tricking the user
sometimes makes a better result.
But again, don't trust Luke.
Try it.
So, it depends on the case.
It depends on what you're doing.
What's your brochure, but just remember
that we are doing it for the user.
Okay, so the answer will be how
the user will perceive this?
>> See maybe more likely to get
better results if it's not a spinner,
necessarily, but
an engaging animation of some sort.
>> Something, yeah,
something that the trick is to,
that it feels like it's loading,
it's generating, it's coming, it's there.
>> They're using their time well.
>> Yeah, but
it's something that you can try.
So you can test,
you can do A-B testing over that,
over your users that might be different
to other users from other websites.
Maybe your community's different.
So it's tried, okay, measuring
>> Facebook
uses that kind of pulsing
content outline thing.
You've seen that
>> Yeah, like a placeholder.
And so if they have something, well,
they don't have that one here.
But yeah, it's like it's like you
feel like a paragraph of text, but
it's not really text.
That's kind of, yeah,
an animation that it's really.
It's it's more animation.
It's not really huge but
>> Then I've seen those, but
they make they take an image and
they put they make like a placeholder,
SVG that's kind of
the outline of the image.
They show that first, and
then they show the image.
>> Yeah, I remember one trick
that was to take images.
So if you have an image, I mean for
a newspaper, I'm not sure if I have one,
let's say this one, and for that image,
but actually after a while,
Newspapers stopped doing that because they
realized that they had another issue.
But they were taking the image
server-side and resizing the image to
really really small, such as 16 by
16 pixels, really really small.
They weren't converting that
into a base 64 and inline image.
And then they were in-lining
in the IMG tile, just a very,
very compressed version of that image.
So then when you load the page,
initially, you see a very,
very low resolution of the image.
It's more like a couple of colors,
like large pixels with colors.
But and then after a while,
you'll replace that with a real image.
And that was a trick, okay, for
users perception that that image was
loading even if it was, it wasn't true.
You weren't loading the image.
Anyway, try it.
So try different techniques, test them on
the real world and see which works best.
There are more metrics in Web Vitals.
For example,
there is one that today is experimental.
That's the one that I think is
going to replace the interactivity
part is interaction to next paint.
This metric will try to
measure responsiveness based
on a more complex algorithm, but
now Chrome is supporting it.
From Chrome, I think it's 108,
a supported interaction to next paint.
So have in mind that Web Vitals,
this effort,
community effort to define
metrics will change over time.
So every once in a while they sit down and
see, okay,
let's see the metrics
that we have defined.
If they're still good or
not let's gather real user metrics and
see if that's the right metric or
maybe we have to change them